So, what is lean?
Well, lean is a product development philosophy that revolves around cutting out all of the unnecessary work
or effort until you're absolutely sure you need to do it
for your users or customers.
Let's say I have an idea for a food delivery business where someone can just text on their phone their
order to a cell phone number and we bring them the food - like that.
What would you need to make this business a reality?
Seriously, put yourself in the position of someone that's going to be starting this business and think
about what you would need to get it to be a real thing.
Normally, we'd incorporate, we'd hire some drivers, we would build a web site, we would put out some advertisements,
and we would buy a cell phone number
for people to text for the food.
So to better use resources here I could have done some work upfront myself by doing things like having
people text my own cell phone number or putting out flyers myself or driving the food to people's houses myself
once I got a text message. This would require a lot more work from me upfront but it guarantees that
I'm not spending money on stuff until I know I actually have to.
So at the point that I get enough business where I can no longer do these things myself, where I can
no longer drive to the people's houses myself or take the orders myself, then I'd start hiring the drivers.
This is a lean approach so lean is really just about building something in an intelligent way where
This is a lean approach. So lean is really just about building something in an intelligent way where
I'm not using the resources until I know I actually have to.
And this way we save a ton of money.
Lean is not specifically for software though.
There is a process called Agile that is specifically for software.
But I do recommend reading more about lean, and if you'd like,
there's a whole book on the topic called Lean Startup by Eric Ries, and it looks a lot like that.
So in the next lecture we're going to talk about Agile.